Add an how-to for the new promotion adjuster class (#88)
solidusio/edgeguides: docs/how-tos/how-to-use-a-custom-promotion-adjuster.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# How to use a custom promotion adjuster

Every time an order is updated, its eligible promotions might
not be valid anymore; for example, this could happen if a promotion is
tight to a specific order total threshold, and this value changes within
the update. In the same way, changing the order could make it eligible
for new promotions.

> In this guide, we'll see how to create a custom promotion adjuster to

Reviewer: What do you think about moving this paragraph to the top, so it's the first one?

> In this guide, we'll see how to create a custom promotion adjuster to
> use our custom logic that handles promotion adjustments every time an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we'll see how to use our custom logic to recalculate adjustments every time an
```

I think it's clearer. We're in the introductory paragraph, and we'll be more specific later and talk about the custom promotion adjuster class.

order is updated.

In Solidus, this behavior is encapsulated in the
[`Spree::Promotion::OrderAdjustmentsRecalculator`][order_adjustments_recalculator],
class, which is called every time the order is updated. This class iterates over all
existing promotion adjustments and recalculates their amount and eligibility.

:::caution

Please, keep in mind that promotion adjustments are handled before taxes are
calculated, such that taxes always respect promotions.

:::

We'll now see how to use our own class instead of the one provided
by Solidus.

First of all, let's declare which promotion adjuster class we want to
use, with the corresponding configuration:

```ruby title="config/initializers/spree.rb"
Spree.config do |config|
  # ...
  config.promotion_adjuster_class = 'MyStore::PromotionAdjuster'
end
```

> Next, let's create our custom class, which responds to the same interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, let's create our custom class, which implements the same interface
```

Using `Next` seems to convey it's not the last step. For me, the end was too abrupt otherwise. Another option is to add a paragraph with a short conclusion.

Also a semantic nit.

of the original promotion adjuster class provided by Solidus:

> ```ruby title="app/models/my_store/promotion_adjuster.rb"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ruby title="app/services/my_store/promotion_adjuster.rb"
```

It's not an `ActiveRecord::Model`, so I think using another directory is better.

Author: This is a bit opinionated. Lot of people are using `app/models` also for things that are not an `ActiveRecord::Model`. This is an article about this topic mentioned often: https://www.codewithjason.com/what-is-a-rails-model/.

Reviewer: Fair enough.
